Update documentation with API v2 usage information (#1)
dynatrace-oss-contrib/micrometer-docs: src/docs/implementations/dynatrace.adoc

:sectnums:
:system: dynatrace

https://www.dynatrace.com/[*Dynatrace*] is a Software Intelligence Platform featuring application performance monitoring (APM), artificial intelligence for operations (AIOps), IT infrastructure monitoring, digital experience management (DEM), and digital business analytics capabilities.
It can ingest multi-purpose dimensional time-series data and has built-in dashboarding. Both SaaS and self-hosted (Managed) deployments are offered.

include::install.adoc[]

== Configuring

=== API v1

> When the apiVersion is configured to "v1", the registry will send data using the https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/environment-api/metric-v1/custom-metrics/[Dynatrace Timeseries API v1 for custom metrics].

Reviewer: ```suggestion

When the API version is configured to "v1", the registry will send data using the https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/environment-api/metric-v1/custom-metrics/[Dynatrace Timeseries API v1 for custom metrics].
```

https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/basics/dynatrace-api-authentication/[The Dynatrace API token documentation] contains more information on how to create an API token.
The metrics ingest (`metrics.ingest`) permission is required on the token in order to ingest metrics.
More info on how to use the v2 API is provided <<bookmark-apiv2, below>>.

[source,java]
----
DynatraceConfig dynatraceConfig = new DynatraceConfig() {
    @Override
    public DynatraceApiVersion apiVersion() {
        return DynatraceApiVersion.V2;
    }

    @Override
    public String apiToken() {
        return MY_TOKEN;
    }

    @Override
    public String uri() {
        return MY_DYNATRACE_URI;
    }

    @Override
    @Nullable
    public String get(String k) {
        return null;
    }
};
MeterRegistry registry = new DynatraceMeterRegistry(dynatraceConfig, Clock.SYSTEM);
----

If you are working with Spring Boot, you can instead put the following properties in your `application-dynatrace.yml` in the `resources` folder.

[source,yml]
----
management.metrics.export.dynatrace:
    enabled: true
    api-token: YOUR_TOKEN
    uri: https://{your-environment-id}.live.dynatrace.com
----

> === API v1

Reviewer 2: Please make this the second item and write "API v1 (Legacy)"

:sectnums:
:system: dynatrace

https://www.dynatrace.com/[*Dynatrace*] is a Software Intelligence Platform featuring application performance monitoring (APM), artificial intelligence for operations (AIOps), IT infrastructure monitoring, digital experience management (DEM), and digital business analytics capabilities.
It can ingest multi-purpose dimensional time-series data and has built-in dashboarding. Both SaaS and self-hosted (Managed) deployments are offered.

include::install.adoc[]

== Configuring

=== Setup

> For setting up new integrations with Dynatrace, it is recommended to use the https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/environment-api/metric-v2/[latest version] of the https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/[API] (`api-version: v2`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For setting up new integrations with Dynatrace, it is recommended to use the latest version of the https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/environment-api/metric-v2/[Dynatrace Metrics API] (`api-version: v2`).
```
I don't think the link to the API landing page is helpful here.

Use the following code in your project to export Micrometer metrics to the specified Dynatrace endpoint. 

> https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/basics/dynatrace-api-authentication/[The Dynatrace API token documentation] contains more information on how to create an API token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a Dynatrace OneAgent is installed on the host running Micrometer, metrics can be exported directly using the OneAgent without having to specify an endpoint URI or API token (see <<bookmark-oneagent, below>>).
If no Dynatrace OneAgent is available, both the Dynatrace Metrics API v2 endpoint and an API token have to be specified.
The https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/basics/dynatrace-api-authentication/[Dynatrace API token documentation] contains more information on how to create an API token.
```

> The 'Ingest metrics' (`metrics.ingest`) permission is required on the token in order to ingest metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The 'Ingest metrics' (`metrics.ingest`) permission is required on the token in order to ingest metrics.
It is recommended to limit scope to only this permission.
```

More information on how to use the v2 API is provided <<bookmark-apiv2, below>>.

[source,java]
----
DynatraceConfig dynatraceConfig = new DynatraceConfig() {
    @Override
    public DynatraceApiVersion apiVersion() {
        return DynatraceApiVersion.V2;
    }

    @Override
    public String uri() {

>         // Read the URI from the environment variables or a config file
>         // Should contain the path, e. g.: https://your-environment-id.live.dynatrace.com/api/v2/metrics/ingest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // The endpoint of the Dynatrace Metrics API v2 including path, e. g., "https://{your-environment-id}.live.dynatrace.com/api/v2/metrics/ingest".
        // To be read from environment variables or a config file.
```

>         return MY_DYNATRACE_URI;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        return MY_DYNATRACE_URI; // or `return "";` to automatically use the local OneAgent endpoint
```
Returning null does not work here, right?

Author: iirc all methods except `get` are `@NonNull`

    }

    @Override
    public String apiToken() {
        // Read from the environment or a config file.

>         // We do *not* recommend hardcoding token or URI here.
>         return MY_TOKEN;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // It is *not* recommended to place secrets in config files but rather to read them from env vars, for example.
        return MY_TOKEN; // or `return "";` to automatically use the local OneAgent endpoint
```
Returning null does not work here, right?

    }

    @Override
    @Nullable
    public String get(String k) {
        return null;
    }
};
MeterRegistry registry = new DynatraceMeterRegistry(dynatraceConfig, Clock.SYSTEM);
----

If you are working with Spring Boot, you can instead put the following properties in your `application-dynatrace.yml` in the `resources` folder.
It is possible to reference environment variables using the Spring property placeholder notation here.

[source,yml]
----
management.metrics.export.dynatrace:
    enabled: true

    api-version: v2

>     # e. g. https://your-environment-id.live.dynatrace.com/api/v2/metrics/ingest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # e. g. https://{your-environment-id}.live.dynatrace.com/api/v2/metrics/ingest
```

>     uri: ${ENV_VAR_DT_INGEST_URI}   
>     api-token: ${ENV_VAR_DT_INGEST_TOKEN}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    uri: ${ENV_VAR_DT_INGEST_URI}         # the local OneAgent endpoint is used if omitted
    api-token: ${ENV_VAR_DT_INGEST_TOKEN} # the local OneAgent endpoint is used if omitted
```

----

=== API v2 [[bookmark-apiv2]]

When the API version is configured to "v2", the registry will send data using the https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/environment-api/metric-v2/[Metrics API v2].
The v2 exporter does not require any properties to be set except the version.
In this case, metrics will be exported to the local OneAgent endpoint (see <<bookmark-oneagent, below>>).

To use the v2 API, overwrite the `apiVersion` property:

[source,java]
----
DynatraceConfig dynatraceConfig = new DynatraceConfig() {
    @Override
    public DynatraceApiVersion apiVersion() {
        return DynatraceApiVersion.V2;
    }

    @Override
    @Nullable
    public String get(String k) {
        return null;
    }
};
MeterRegistry registry = new DynatraceMeterRegistry(dynatraceConfig, Clock.SYSTEM);
----

Micrometer's Spring Boot support can also bind the `api-version` property to the config automatically:

[source,yml]
----
management.metrics.export.dynatrace:
    api-version: v2
----

> [[bookmark-oneagent]]*Minimal configuration with a local OneAgent*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[[bookmark-oneagent]]*Minimal configuration with a local Dynatrace OneAgent*
```

In the minimal configuration shown above (no URI or API token), the v2 exporter will attempt to export to the https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/how-to-use-dynatrace/metrics/metric-ingestion/ingestion-methods/local-api/[local OneAgent metrics ingest endpoint].

> Note that this only works if the a OneAgent is running on the machine and https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/how-to-use-dynatrace/metrics/metric-ingestion/ingestion-methods/local-api/#enable-the-oneagent-metric-api[the local metric API feature is enabled].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that this only works if the a OneAgent is running on the host and the https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/how-to-use-dynatrace/metrics/metric-ingestion/ingestion-methods/local-api/#enable-the-oneagent-metric-api[local OneAgent Metric API] is available.
```
With this wording we don't have to update it if this was on by default or not configurable in future.

Author: Nice catch

*Configuration with URI and API token*

> If no local OneAgent is running on the machine or the metrics should be sent to a specific endpoint, the Dynatrace v2 exporter can be configured with a Dynatrace environment URL and an https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/basics/dynatrace-api-authentication/[API token].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no local OneAgent is running on the host or the metrics should be sent to a different endpoint (e.g, a different tenant), the Dynatrace v2 exporter can be configured with an explicit endpoint URI and an https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/basics/dynatrace-api-authentication/[API token].
```

The https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/basics/dynatrace-api-authentication/[API token] must have the https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/shortlink/api-authentication#token-permissions["Ingest metrics"] (`metrics.ingest`) permission set.

> It is recommended to limit scope to this permission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended to limit scope to only this permission.
```

> Please also ensure that the endpoint URL is complete, i. e. it contains the path `/api/v2/metrics/ingest` on SaaS and managed deployments, or `/metrics/ingest` for OneAgent endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The entire Metrics v2 API endpoint URI has to be specified including its path, i.e., with the path `/api/v2/metrics/ingest` on SaaS and managed deployments, or `/metrics/ingest` for OneAgent endpoints as mentioned in the docs.
```

*Properties available in the v2 exporter*

> When using the https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/environment-api/metric-v2/[Dynatrace metrics API v2] additional optional properties can be set:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/environment-api/metric-v2/[Dynatrace metrics API v2], additional optional properties can be set:
```

[source,yml]
----
management.metrics.export.dynatrace:
    # required to use the properties below
    api-version: v2

    # required if not using a local OneAgent endpoint.

>     uri: https://your-environment-id.live.dynatrace.com/api/v2/metrics/ingest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    uri: https://{your-environment-id}.live.dynatrace.com/api/v2/metrics/ingest
```

    # or https://your-domain/e/{your-environment-id}/api/v2/metrics/ingest on Managed

>     # We do *not* recommend putting the token or URI into the .yml file in clear text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # It is *not* recommended to put the token into the YAML file directly.
```

>     # We suggest using environment variables, e. g. api-token: ${ENV_VAR_DT_INGEST_TOKEN}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # It should be read from environment variables or System properties instead, e. g., using `api-token: ${ENV_VAR_DT_INGEST_TOKEN}`
```

    api-token: YOUR_TOKEN

    # Sets a prefix that is prepended to each exported metric key.
    metric-key-prefix: your.key.prefix

>     # If set to true and a local OneAgent is running, exports OneAgent metadata to the specified Dynatrace endpoint (default: false)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # If set to true and a local OneAgent is running, retrieves process and host metadata and adds it as additional dimensions to all data points (default: false)
```

    enrich-with-one-agent-metadata: true

    # Sets an arbitrary number of key-value pairs as default dimensions.
    # Micrometer tags will overwrite these dimensions, if the same key appears twice.
    # Each exported metric will contain these dimensions.
    default-dimensions:
        key1: "value1"
        key2: "value2"
----

These properties can also be set in code by overwriting the respective functions.

=== API v1 (Legacy)

When the apiVersion is configured to "v1", the registry will send data using the https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/environment-api/metric-v1/custom-metrics/[Dynatrace Timeseries API v1 for custom metrics].
The reported metrics will be assigned to https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/environment-api/topology-and-smartscape/custom-device-api/report-custom-device-metric-via-rest-api/[custom devices] in Dynatrace.

> If no apiVersion is specified, it will default to "v1".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no apiVersion is specified, it will default to "v1" for backwards-compatibility with earlier setups.
```

> For the v1 API, do not specify the ingest path, but only the base URL of your environment, e. g. `uri: https://your-environment-id.live.dynatrace.com`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the v1 API, do not specify the ingest path, but only the base URL of your environment, e. g. `uri: https://{your-environment-id}.live.dynatrace.com`
```

I think the placeholders are quite nice because this makes it super clear that this can't be used as a default for demo purposes or similar since it will throw.

Author: Also, this is consistent with the Dynatrace Doc. I somehow thought it might be misleading, given that the environment variable substitution looks so similar (`${TEXT}` vs. `{TEXT}`).

[source,java]
----
DynatraceConfig dynatraceConfig = new DynatraceConfig() {
    @Override
    public String uri() {

>         // Should *not* contain the path, e. g.: https://your-environment-id.live.dynatrace.com

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // The Dynatrace environment URI without any path, e. g.: https://{your-environment-id}.live.dynatrace.com
```

        return MY_DYNATRACE_URI;
    }

    @Override
    public String apiToken() {

>         // We do *not* recommend hardcoding token or URI here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // It is *not* recommended to place secrets in config files but rather to read them from env vars, for example.
```

:sectnums:
:system: dynatrace

https://www.dynatrace.com/[*Dynatrace*] is a Software Intelligence Platform featuring application performance monitoring (APM), artificial intelligence for operations (AIOps), IT infrastructure monitoring, digital experience management (DEM), and digital business analytics capabilities.
It can ingest multi-purpose dimensional time-series data and has built-in dashboarding. Both SaaS and self-hosted (Managed) deployments are offered.

include::install.adoc[]

== Configuring

=== Setup

For setting up new integrations with Dynatrace, it is recommended to use the latest version of the https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/environment-api/metric-v2/[Dynatrace Metrics API] (`api-version: v2`).

> Use the following code in your project to export Micrometer metrics to the specified Dynatrace endpoint.

Reviewer 2: Please add more structure here, like 

## OneAgent installed on the host (preferred)

> Use the following code in your project to export Micrometer metrics to the specified Dynatrace endpoint. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following code in your project to export Micrometer metrics to the specified Dynatrace endpoint.
```

If a Dynatrace OneAgent is installed on the host running Micrometer, metrics can be exported directly using the OneAgent without having to specify an endpoint URI or API token (see <<bookmark-oneagent, below>>).
If no Dynatrace OneAgent is available, both the Dynatrace Metrics API v2 endpoint and an API token have to be specified.
The https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/basics/dynatrace-api-authentication/[Dynatrace API token documentation] contains more information on how to create an API token.
The 'Ingest metrics' (`metrics.ingest`) permission is required on the token in order to ingest metrics.
It is recommended to limit scope to only this permission.
More information on how to use the v2 API is provided <<bookmark-apiv2, below>>.

[source,java]
----
DynatraceConfig dynatraceConfig = new DynatraceConfig() {
    @Override
    public DynatraceApiVersion apiVersion() {
        return DynatraceApiVersion.V2;
    }

    @Override
    public String uri() {

>         // The endpoint of the Dynatrace Metrics API v2 including path, e. g., "https://{your-environment-id}.live.dynatrace.com/api/v2/metrics/ingest".

Reviewer 2: Please flip this to default to `""` and only put the endpoint URL placeholder into the comment.

Again - the default needs to be not having to provide the endpoint URL. Not having the OneAgent on the same host is the exception and not the rule.

[source,java]
----
DynatraceConfig dynatraceConfig = new DynatraceConfig() {
    @Override
    public DynatraceApiVersion apiVersion() {
        return DynatraceApiVersion.V2;
    }

    @Override
    @Nullable
    public String get(String k) {
        return null;
    }
};
MeterRegistry registry = new DynatraceMeterRegistry(dynatraceConfig, Clock.SYSTEM);
----

Micrometer's Spring Boot support can also bind the `api-version` property to the config automatically:

[source,yml]
----
management.metrics.export.dynatrace:
    api-version: v2
----

[[bookmark-oneagent]]*Minimal configuration with a local Dynatrace OneAgent*

In the minimal configuration shown above (no URI or API token), the v2 exporter will attempt to export to the https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/how-to-use-dynatrace/metrics/metric-ingestion/ingestion-methods/local-api/[local OneAgent metrics ingest endpoint].
Note that this only works if the a OneAgent is running on the host and the https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/how-to-use-dynatrace/metrics/metric-ingestion/ingestion-methods/local-api/#enable-the-oneagent-metric-api[local OneAgent Metric API] is available.

*Configuration with URI and API token*

> If no local OneAgent is running on the host or the metrics should be sent to a different endpoint (e.g, a different tenant), the Dynatrace v2 exporter can be configured with an explicit endpoint URI and an https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/basics/dynatrace-api-authentication/[API token].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no local OneAgent is running on the host or the metrics should be sent to a different endpoint (e.g., a different tenant), the Dynatrace v2 exporter can be configured with an explicit endpoint URI and an https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/basics/dynatrace-api-authentication/[API token].
```

The https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/basics/dynatrace-api-authentication/[API token] must have the https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/shortlink/api-authentication#token-permissions["Ingest metrics"] (`metrics.ingest`) permission set.
It is recommended to limit scope to only this permission.

The entire Metrics v2 API endpoint URI has to be specified including its path, i.e., with the path `/api/v2/metrics/ingest` on SaaS and managed deployments, or `/metrics/ingest` for OneAgent endpoints as mentioned in the https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/environment-api/metric-v2/post-ingest-metrics/[documentation].

*Properties available in the v2 exporter*

When using the https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/environment-api/metric-v2/[Dynatrace metrics API v2], additional optional properties can be set:

[source,yml]
----
management.metrics.export.dynatrace:
    # required to use the properties below
    api-version: v2

    # required if not using a local OneAgent endpoint.
    uri: https://{your-environment-id}.live.dynatrace.com/api/v2/metrics/ingest

>     # or https://your-domain/e/{your-environment-id}/api/v2/metrics/ingest on Managed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # or https://{your-domain}/e/{your-environment-id}/api/v2/metrics/ingest on Managed
```

:sectnums:
:system: dynatrace

https://www.dynatrace.com/[*Dynatrace*] is a Software Intelligence Platform featuring application performance monitoring (APM), artificial intelligence for operations (AIOps), IT infrastructure monitoring, digital experience management (DEM), and digital business analytics capabilities.
It can ingest multi-purpose dimensional time-series data and has built-in dashboarding. Both SaaS and self-hosted (Managed) deployments are offered.

include::install.adoc[]

== Configuring

> For setting up new integrations with Dynatrace, it is recommended to use the latest version of the https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/environment-api/metric-v2/[Dynatrace Metrics API] (`api-version: v2`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For setting up new integrations with Dynatrace, it is recommended to use the latest version of the https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/environment-api/metric-v2/[Dynatrace Metrics API] (`api-version: v2`).
More details on how to use the v2 API are provided further <<bookmark-apiv2, below>>.
```
Moved up.

    @Override
    public DynatraceApiVersion apiVersion() {
        return DynatraceApiVersion.V2;
    }

    @Override
    @Nullable
    public String get(String k) {
        // This method for retrieving arbitrary config items introduced by the interface is currently not used in DynatraceConfig.
        return null;
    }
};
MeterRegistry registry = new DynatraceMeterRegistry(dynatraceConfig, Clock.SYSTEM);
----

If you are working with Spring Boot, you can instead put the following properties in your `application-dynatrace.yml` in the `resources` folder.

[source,yml]
----
management.metrics.export.dynatrace:
    enabled: true
    api-version: v2
----

=== Using a custom endpoint

If no Dynatrace OneAgent is available, both the Dynatrace Metrics API v2 endpoint and an API token have to be specified.
The https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/basics/dynatrace-api-authentication/[Dynatrace API token documentation] contains more information on how to create an API token.
The 'Ingest metrics' (`metrics.ingest`) permission is required on the token in order to ingest metrics.
It is recommended to limit scope to only this permission.

> More information on how to use the v2 API is provided <<bookmark-apiv2, below>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I'd move this up in case someone only looks at the OneAgent config.

        // Read from the environment or a config file.
        // It is *not* recommended to place secrets in config files
        // but rather to read them from env vars, for example.
        return MY_TOKEN;
    }

    @Override
    @Nullable
    public String get(String k) {
        // This method for retrieving arbitrary config items introduced by the interface is currently not used in DynatraceConfig.
        return null;
    }
};
MeterRegistry registry = new DynatraceMeterRegistry(dynatraceConfig, Clock.SYSTEM);
----

These properties can also be set via the Spring Boot properties file.
It is possible to reference environment variables using the Spring property placeholder notation here.

[source,yml]
----
management.metrics.export.dynatrace:
    enabled: true
    api-version: v2

    # e. g. https://{your-environment-id}.live.dynatrace.com/api/v2/metrics/ingest
    uri: ${ENV_VAR_DT_INGEST_URI}
    api-token: ${ENV_VAR_DT_INGEST_TOKEN}
----

== API Versions

=== API v2 [[bookmark-apiv2]]

When the API version is configured to "v2", the registry will send data using the https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/environment-api/metric-v2/[Metrics API v2].

> The v2 exporter does not require any properties to be set except the version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The v2 exporter does not require any properties to be set except for the version.
```

In this case, metrics will be exported to the local OneAgent endpoint.
If no OneAgent is running on the target host, it is possible to specify an endpoint and an API token in order to export metrics to that specific endpoint.

*Minimal configuration with a local Dynatrace OneAgent*

In the minimal configuration <<bookmark-oneagent-example, shown above>> (no URI or API token), the v2 exporter will attempt to export to the https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/how-to-use-dynatrace/metrics/metric-ingestion/ingestion-methods/local-api/[local OneAgent metrics ingest endpoint].

> Note that this only works if the a OneAgent is running on the host and the https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/how-to-use-dynatrace/metrics/metric-ingestion/ingestion-methods/local-api/#enable-the-oneagent-metric-api[local OneAgent Metric API] is available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that this only works if the a OneAgent is running on the host and the https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/how-to-use-dynatrace/metrics/metric-ingestion/ingestion-methods/local-api/#enable-the-oneagent-metric-api[local OneAgent Metric API] is available.
If the ingestion port was changed to a custom one, the full endpoint URI has to be provided for the URI property (with API token left empty).
```

    api-version: v2

    # required if not using a local OneAgent endpoint.
    uri: https://{your-environment-id}.live.dynatrace.com/api/v2/metrics/ingest
    # or https://{your-domain}/e/{your-environment-id}/api/v2/metrics/ingest on Managed

    # It is *not* recommended to put the token into the YAML file directly.
    # It should be read from environment variables or System properties instead,
    # e. g., using `api-token: ${ENV_VAR_DT_INGEST_TOKEN}`
    api-token: YOUR_TOKEN

    # Sets a prefix that is prepended to each exported metric key.
    metric-key-prefix: your.key.prefix

    # If set to true and a local OneAgent is running, retrieves process and host metadata
    # and adds it as additional dimensions to all data points (default: true)
    enrich-with-one-agent-metadata: true

    # Sets an arbitrary number of key-value pairs as default dimensions.
    # Micrometer tags will overwrite these dimensions, if the same key appears twice.
    # Each exported metric will contain these dimensions.
    default-dimensions:
        key1: "value1"
        key2: "value2"

    # The export interval in which metrics are sent to Dynatrace. (default: 60s)
    step: 60s
----

> These properties can also be set in code by overwriting the respective functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These properties can also be set in code by overwriting the respective methods.
```

== Configuring

> === Quick setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Setup
```

For setting up new integrations with Dynatrace, it is recommended to use the latest version of the API (`api-version: v2`).

Use the following code in your project to export Micrometer metrics to the specified Dynatrace endpoint. 
https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/basics/dynatrace-api-authentication/[The Dynatrace API token documentation] contains more information on how to create an API token.

> The metrics ingest (`metrics.ingest`) permission is required on the token in order to ingest metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The 'Ingest metrics' (`metrics.ingest`) permission is required on the token in order to ingest metrics.
It is recommended to limit scope to only this permission.
```

Reviewer 2: Can we link to the API documentation when mentioning MINT first?

Author: I added links to the introductory sentence.

> More info on how to use the v2 API is provided <<bookmark-apiv2, below>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More information on how to use the v2 API is provided <<bookmark-apiv2, below>>.
```

[source,java]
----
DynatraceConfig dynatraceConfig = new DynatraceConfig() {
    @Override
    public DynatraceApiVersion apiVersion() {
        return DynatraceApiVersion.V2;
    }

    @Override
    public String apiToken() {

>         return MY_TOKEN;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        return MY_TOKEN; // e.g. read from env vars or a config file
```

    }

    @Override
    public String uri() {

>         return MY_DYNATRACE_URI;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        return MY_DYNATRACE_URI; // e.g. read from env vars or a config file
```

    }

    @Override
    @Nullable
    public String get(String k) {
        return null;

>     }

Reviewer: Is it required to override this?

Author: Yes, this is an interface method that is not implemented in the base classes.

Reviewer: I see. I think this is quite surprising for the very first basic example however. Maybe add a comment like "This method for retrieving arbitrary config items introduced by the interface is currently not used in DynatraceConfig.".

};
MeterRegistry registry = new DynatraceMeterRegistry(dynatraceConfig, Clock.SYSTEM);
----

> If you are working with Spring Boot, you can instead put the following properties in your `application-dynatrace.yml` in the `resources` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are working with Spring Boot, you can instead put the following properties in your `application-dynatrace.yml` in the `resources` folder.
It is possible to reference environment variables using the Spring property placeholder notation here.
```

[source,yml]
----
management.metrics.export.dynatrace:
    enabled: true

>     api-token: YOUR_TOKEN
>     uri: https://{your-environment-id}.live.dynatrace.com

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    api-version: v2
    uri: ${MY_DT_ENV_URI} # https://{your-environment-id}.live.dynatrace.com
    api-token: ${MY_DT_ENV_TOKEN}
```
We should not suggest placing the values directly in the YAML but refer to the environment variable placeholder mechanism (https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/spring-boot-features.html#boot-features-external-config-placeholders-in-properties), especially for secrets.

Also URI first and token for that URI second looks more natural to me.

    # The interval at which metrics are sent to Dynatrace. The default is 1 minute.
    step: 1m
----

=== API v2

> Dynatrace offers two APIs for metrics ingest, https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/environment-api/metric-v1/[v1] and https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/environment-api/metric-v2/[v2].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the API version is configured to "v2", the registry will send data using the https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/environment-api/metric-v2/[Metrics API v2].
```
v1 is already mentioned above

The v2 exporter does not require any properties to be set except the version.
In this case, metrics will be exported to the local OneAgent endpoint (see below).

To use the v2 API, overwrite the `apiVersion` property:

[source,java]
----
DynatraceConfig dynatraceConfig = new DynatraceConfig() {
    @Override
    public DynatraceApiVersion apiVersion() {
        return DynatraceApiVersion.V2;
    }

    @Override
    @Nullable
    public String get(String k) {
        return null;
    }
};
MeterRegistry registry = new DynatraceMeterRegistry(dynatraceConfig, Clock.SYSTEM);
----

Micrometer's Spring Boot support can also bind the `api-version` property to the config:

[source,yml]
----
management.metrics.export.dynatrace:
    api-version: v2
----

[[bookmark-oneagent]]*Minimal configuration with a local OneAgent*

> In the minimal configuration shown above (no URI or API token) the v2 exporter will attempt to export to the https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/how-to-use-dynatrace/metrics/metric-ingestion/ingestion-methods/local-api/[local OneAgent metrics ingest endpoint].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the minimal configuration shown above (no URI or API token), the v2 exporter will attempt to export to the https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/how-to-use-dynatrace/metrics/metric-ingestion/ingestion-methods/local-api/[local OneAgent metrics ingest endpoint].
```

Note that this only works if the a OneAgent is running on the machine and https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/how-to-use-dynatrace/metrics/metric-ingestion/ingestion-methods/local-api/#enable-the-oneagent-metric-api[the local metric API feature is enabled].

*Configuration with URI and API token*

> If no local OneAgent is running on the machine or the metrics should be sent to a specific endpoint, the Dynatrace v2 exporter can be configured with a URL and an https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/basics/dynatrace-api-authentication/[API token].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no local OneAgent is running on the machine or the metrics should be sent to a specific endpoint, the Dynatrace v2 exporter can be configured with a Dynatrace environment URL and an https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/basics/dynatrace-api-authentication/[API token].
```

The https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/basics/dynatrace-api-authentication/[API token] must have the https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/shortlink/api-authentication#token-permissions["Ingest metrics"] (`metrics.ingest`) permission set.
It is recommended to limit scope to this permission.

*Additional properties available in the v2 exporter*

When using the https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/dynatrace-api/environment-api/metric-v2/[Dynatrace metrics API v2] additional optional properties can be set:

[source,yml]
----
management.metrics.export.dynatrace:
    # only required if not using a local OneAgent endpoint.
    api-token: YOUR_TOKEN

>     uri: https://XXXXXXX.live.dynatrace.com

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    uri: https://env12345.live.dynatrace.com // or "https://{your-domain}/e/{your-environment-id}/" on Managed
```

Author: Would it be a good idea to use `YOUR_ENV.live.dynatrace...` instead of something that actually looks like a valid URL?

Also, is it common practice in our documentation to provide info on managed deployments?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    uri: https://{your-environment-id}.live.dynatrace.com // or "https://{your-domain}/e/{your-environment-id}/" on Managed
```

Sure, just use `{your-environment-id}` instead. When we think about it we usually have it there, yes.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>     # Sets a metric key prefix that is prepended to each exported metric line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # Sets a prefix that is prepended to each exported metric key.
```
"line" is an implementation detail of the transport protocol
